An increasing amount of evidence suggests that the tetrataenite-bearing cloudy zones (CZ) in iron and stony-iron meteorites can preserve magnetic records of ancient magnetic activity  of their parent bodies over solar system timescales. Tetrataenite islands in the CZ arenanometer-sized (< 200 nm) crystals that usually form through ordering from precursor taenite  islands upon extremely slow cooling through 320 oC. Recent micromagnetic models have shown that such precursor taenite islands form highly thermally stable single-domain (SD) or  single-vortex states (SV). In this work we employ a 3D finite-element multi-phase micromagnetic modeling to show that tetratenite inherits the magnetic remanence of taenite precursor  when it forms over underlying SD states. When taenite forms SV states, however, tetrataenite resets the precursor magnetization and records a new remanence through chemical ordering  at 320 oC. We further assess the thermal stability of tetrataenite islands. We show that in cases where tetrataenite inherits the domain states of its precursor taenite, the origin  of the remanence can be up to ∼10^5 years older than in cases where tetrataenite resets the precursor SV magnetization in fast-cooled meteorites, and ~ 1 -- >10 Myr in slowly-cooled meteorites, corresponding, therefore, to records of two very different stages of planetary formation. 

This repository contains the scripts that were used to create the data.

When using any of the code, figures or data, please cite the corresponding paper:

Devienne, J. A. P. M., Berndt, T. A., Williams, W., & Chen, S. (2024). From Disorder to Order: Inheritance of Magnetic Remanence in Tetrataenite-Bearing Meteorites From Multi-Phase Micromagnetic Modeling. ESS Open Archive, https://www.authorea.com/doi/full/10.22541/essoar.170365210.02652655/v1
